Take care of the suffering truth, and the suffering truth, and the cause of suffering truth.
For that, and then Buddha give, those known as the Nainana teachings. Nainana teachings? Oh, you
know.
The Shavaka Jana teachings, Buddha Jana teachings, I will list the names. Many of you know of the
Buddha Jana teachings.
And Bodhisattva Jana teachings, those are known as, then, the outer three Jana teachings, outer
three Jana teachings.
And Shavaka Jana and Buddha Jana are known as, both target as Hin Jana teachings, in terms of the
basic Buddhism, Buddhist schools teaching, or basic Buddhism teachings.
And then, third one is Bodhisattva Jana. Bodhisattva Jana is another single name, it's Mahayana's.
Mahayana.
And many of you know, I think, the meaning of Bodhisattva. What means Bodhisattva? Bodhisattva is
Sanskrit word, Bodhi is enlightenment.
Mine, the sattva is courageous. Courageous one is called enlightenment, or Buddha's. That also
indicates that when we are practicing,
whenever we are practicing zoopshin, whenever we are practicing any practice in the Mahayana
practice, we need courage, courage and commitment.
For that reason here, Buddha sees courageous for the enlightenment, Bodhisattva's. Bodhi is
enlightenment, sattva is courageous.
We need courage, commitment, determination, and patience.
Patient is what? Combination of the courage and commitment. You are standing upon the resistance,
or you are standing,
finally, any resistance comes, in all different techniques.
In the samsara, there are so many resistances. When we start doing some good things, activity,
there is always turbulence.
Small level, big level, bigger level, very wide level, definitely there is, lot of turbulence comes
.
It is going to almost kind of perishing our beautiful attention, beautiful thoughts.
So, for that reason, we need courage, we need commitment for the enlightenment.
And then, also, when we start practicing, there are so many inner conveners, again, challenges.
Mental challenges come, different emotions, different mental states are coming, one after another,
all this,
and it almost is blowing in hell in our channels, in the channels of the Bodhisattva.
And challenges, one after another. And all those, sometimes, many times, also in regions, in voice,
in thinking,
all practices are not good. I practice it, and this is the kind of making all the discouragement
statement,
and then, kind of, blaming to our practice, what we are doing. That also happens.
This is what is known as obstacles, hindrance. This is what even the Buddha had, that Buddha is
what?
He accumulated three countless eons of the merit, in reaching the last level of the 10th vumins.
Even that's really, when he said, underneath the Bodhi tree, all the different obstacles came up.
Those are known as the 80 millions Maha. 80,000 millions Mahas began to attack.
And there is that, because spiritual objects appeared, and soothing, calming world appeared,
and all spiritual sensory images appeared, one after another, to prevent, and then frighten the
whole experience,
and it happened, all that, I mean, you all know that.
This is obstacles. Have anybody thought that's true, or I should leave, or that's true?
Even Buddha got the message of your kingdom, and all is destroyed, your wife is robbed by someone
else,
robbed of, even he left kingdom, and your kingdom is destroyed, you should go now.
Even those words came, those individually, in the teachings said, individuals appeared and sent,
and given those messages, messages. And somehow, Buddha stopped there, and took those indications
as truth,
Buddha won't become the Buddha, and all that. But however, Buddha continually remained,
as with courage, he made even statement, right?
When he sat down under the Bodhi tree, he made the statement, statement,
and laying a perfectly beautiful, even Victoria grass, on the grass underneath the Bodhi tree,
and then he sat down on that cushion, with a fragile posture, pressing to the east, and he made the
statement.
That in sitting on this cushion, without obtaining my final goal of the realisation,
even my bone is cracked away, even my flesh is dried up, dried up,
and no matter whatever situation happens, I will never move from this cushion.
I never move from this cushion. Buddha made that strong statement, strong statement,
and when he made that strong courage, a commitment statement, in the teachings said,
the whole universe is beginning to shake, tremble, and at that moment the Mahārāsa,
what is this happening? Why is this? Then his Mahārāsa soul, so the Buddha is reaching
enlightenment.
And then he did all those obstacles in the teachings.
So that shows, even the final stage of the realisation, in achievement, these obstacles.
Therefore, we need courage and commitment.
We should, for those reasons, you need to guide the way and the lives of Bodhisattva.
How are the teachings, how do you need courage and commitment and determination and patience
to really preserve and to bring out your panel goals?
This is what Bodhisattva means. That is what the meaning of this, Bodhisattva.
Bodhisattva, the courageous one called enlightenment.
With the courageous for the enlightenment, then you reach it.
This is Mahārāsa teachings. Suttara Mahārāsa teaching,
and many times what is also named causal Mahārāsa teachings. Causal Mahārāsa.
So now one of the teachings said causal Mahārāsa.
And what that means, actually. You should think that. What that means.
Means. Means. And maybe there is something else, Mahārāsa.
And that Mahārāsa, something else Mahārāsa is the result of Mahārāsa.
The proof which in Mahārāsa, proof which in Mahārāsa is Vedayana teachings.
And what it means causal Mahārāsa teaches.
Causal Mahārāsa is following to reach enlightenment.
Goal and intention all are the same, both Mahārāsa.
Whether it is the result Mahārāsa or it is causal Mahārāsa.
But where you achieve the goal has difference.
Difference. Direction. Direction is different.
Causal Mahārāsa teaching said when you reach enlightenment, when you become the Buddha.
I said, for example, Buddha Shakyamuni in the teaching said three countless eons.
He practiced it. Accumulation married, western married and reaching enlightenment.
So result of the three countless eons.
So this is long distance in a very long way that you are walking with cause.
Cause. Therefore it is named as causal Mahārāsa.
It is just cause to bring enlightenment.
Result Mahārāsa. Result Mahārāsa is distant level is very quick.
Now this result Mahārāsa, of course many of you know already.
But who of you don't know? Those are the, again this result Mahārāsa can be divided into six
groups.
And fourth three and three three, so second three.
Fourth three is known as also another name terminology since we are shita, starting the Buddhism.
And so, again I am going to remind you to you.
This is the outer three tantra are known as outer tantra or first three tantra outer tantras.
And second three tantras are the result Mahārāsa and result inner tantras.
Those are the three, three outer tantra and three inner tantras.
These are all three, these are the tantras.
When you practice a tantra practices when you reach enlightenment.
When within Kriya Tantra in the teaching said it takes about sixteen lifetimes, sixteen lifetimes.
And that means, that means in the causal Mahārāsa to reach enlightenment
is taking about three countless eons.
Even that one Buddha Shakyamuni said, one who was highly capable, full of skill means courage and
commitment.
Buddha Shakyamuni himself as one of that reaching enlightenment in upper thirteen three countless e
ons.
And then some of those mediocre courage and commitment continue pursuing same determination with
joyful effort when they reach it.
Seven countless eons, so three countless eons, seven countless eons.
So it's big difference.
And the very third quality of mediocre capabilities of joyful effort person reaching enlightenment
meant in the thirty three countless eons.
So how much difference that even in causal Mahārāsa that much takes.
Even the best capabilities such as the Buddha Shakyamuni, he told to reach enlightenment three
countless eons.
But in the day, in that tantra resolved Mahārāsa, Yāna is completely different.
As I said, tantra in the teaching said, Kriya Tantra will take sixteen countless eons, sixteen lif
etimes, not countless.
Lifetimes reaching enlightenment.
And then Upa Tantra, second tantra, Kriya Upa, yoga, seven lifetimes.
Seven lifetimes Upa Tantras.
And yoga tantra, last of the three outer tantras, three lifetimes, those high capabilities can
reach enlightenment.
Why is that?
Because more skillful means more techniques and more courageous.
Courage is more determinations, more acceptance of the old very honest techniques and as well as
teachings begin to apply.
And for that reason, what is the famous suttara, not suttara, tantra commentary, system romance.
And they said, tantra teaching is not just only holding on one direction, it's not just below by
one meaning.
And many more skillful means, more skillful means is highly developed, highly couple of
practitioners.
And for this, these three theories, Vajrayana teaching is the past ones.
And what means that one, not blocked by one meaning,
you're not kind of holding only one guru, such as Mahayana teaching, one guru, who is composed of
emptiness.
The great Mahashananda Realization. Mahashananda.
But in the Vajrayana teaching, it is empty, it is also appeared as a token as a border
enlightenment status.
Border enlightenment, for that reason, Vajrayana teaching often chose three versions.
Vajrayana poem, Vajrayana song, Vajrayana mind.
It's both are, for example, all, everything is enlightened, not just only focused on one direction
of the Mahashananda or great emptiness.
You also bring together exactly where things are.
The things there is, absolute truth, relative truth, not just only focused on absolute truth, but
relative truth.
Relative truth is enlightened, absolute truth is enlightened.
Border in the union status, bring that realization clearly as it is and therefore is not just
blocked by the one who's part.
And then all the skillful means in Vajrayana teaching is.
What are the skillful means in teaching? Poets which use simple things, about mantras, about
meditation, about the channel,
about the wind, about the essence, the element of the mind, and as well as also the essence, the
element of the bodies.
All the soul, this is just how I'm talking, uses small things.
There's so many varieties of the techniques that all lead, all designed, all focused, activated,
glorified,
energy, natural called as it is.
And then of course to handle that, to handle that, Vajrayana practicing, highly capable at
intelligent beings.
That means courage level, commitment level, level and determination level, and accepting openness
levels
and devotion level, everything is high capabilities.
Highly capabilities, devotion, joy, appreciation, bodhicitta, all these things.
And because you're full of them, everything is kind of like shimmering state of the inner qualities
of them.
Then the Vajrayana teaching when you practice, then it comes, it comes.
What's called win-win situation, embrace that realization, past.
Therefore, Vajrayana teaching is known as resolved Mahayana, embrace realization so fast.
Then when we talk about the like, in other, in other countries, such as Mahayoga, Anuya, Ati, or
Thanas,
by these practice of the three, inner thanra bring enlightenment within these lifetimes.
Within these lifetimes, for look that, to read the life story of all those great masters,
such as 25 disciples and Gaurabhammas, the practice of inner thanra, thanra practice, reach
enlightenment, all that.
And then within, even they just said within, within lifetime, all three years, seven years, twelve
years,
all those are also really named and upper thanra.
We have the courage and commitment and determination, devotion and joy and appreciation with joyful
effort.
And we really practice as the teachings, really we can make the change, change.
And for those reasons, even Dokkitaji, many times they said, well, you're sitting down on the
cushion,
you can be only beings, but where you get up from the cushion, you are Buddha.
So, sit back, live with them, really.
Sitting down, by sitting down, during that time, when you're sitting down, you are little sentient
beings
and you sit hour, whatever, hour, and then you get up, you are Buddha.
You walk out with Buddha, sit down with the sentient beings, walk out with Buddha, even Dokkitaji
said that.
So, that's what they really do, Dokkitaji.
So, their sense of enlightenment comes so fast, for that reason, is named as Risul Janas.
And I think I'm going to start.